@node Call
@unnumbered Call configuration

Call is a rule when and how node can be called.

Example list of call structures:

@verbatim
calls: [
    {
        cron: "*/1 * * * MON-FRI"
        onlinedeadline: 3600
        nice: PRIORITY+10
    },
    {
        cron: "30 * * * SAT,SUN"
        onlinedeadline: 1800
        maxonlinetime: 1750
        nice: NORMAL
        rxrate: 10
        txrate: 20
    },
    {
        cron: "0 * * * SAT,SUN"
        xx: rx
        addr: lan
    },
]
@end verbatim

tells that on work days of the week call that node every minute,
disconnect after an hour of inactivity and process only relatively high
priority packets (presumably mail ones). So we connect and hold
connection for very long time to pass only emails. On weekends call that
node only each half-hour for processing high-priority packets. Also only
on weekends try to connect to that node every hour only using LAN
address and only receiving any (any priority) packets (assume that low
priority huge file transmission are done additionally via offline
connections).

It contains the following fields (only @emph{cron} is required):

@table @emph

@item cron
This is copy-pasted documentation from
@code{github.com/gorhill/cronexpr} library used there.

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .1 .2 .5
@headitem Field name @tab Mandatory? @tab Allowed values @tab Allowed special characters

@item Seconds @tab No @tab 0-59 @tab @verb{|* / , -|}
@item Minutes @tab Yes @tab 0-59 @tab @verb{|* / , -|}
@item Hours @tab Yes @tab 0-23 @tab @verb{|* / , -|}
@item Day of month @tab Yes @tab 1-31 @tab @verb{|* / , - L W|}
@item Month @tab Yes @tab 1-12 or JAN-DEC @tab @verb{|* / , -|}
@item Day of week @tab Yes @tab 0-6 or SUN-SAT @tab @verb{|* / , - L #|}
@item Year @tab No @tab 1970–2099 @tab @verb{|* / , -|}

@end multitable

@table @asis

@item Asterisk (@verb{|*|})

The asterisk indicates that the cron expression matches for all values
of the field. E.g., using an asterisk in the 4th field (month) indicates
every month.

@item Slash (@verb{|/|})

Slashes describe increments of ranges. For example @verb{|3-59/15|} in
the minute field indicate the third minute of the hour and every 15
minutes thereafter. The form @verb{|*/...|} is equivalent to the form
"first-last/...", that is, an increment over the largest possible range
of the field.

@item Comma (@verb{|,|})

Commas are used to separate items of a list. For example, using
@verb{|MON,WED,FRI|} in the 5th field (day of week) means Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.

@item Hyphen (@verb{|-|})

Hyphens define ranges. For example, 2000-2010 indicates every year
between 2000 and 2010 AD, inclusive.

@item L

@verb{|L|} stands for "last". When used in the day-of-week field, it
allows you to specify constructs such as "the last Friday" (@verb{|5L|})
of a given month. In the day-of-month field, it specifies the last day
of the month.

@item W

The @verb{|W|} character is allowed for the day-of-month field. This
character is used to specify the business day (Monday-Friday) nearest
the given day. As an example, if you were to specify @verb{|15W|} as the
value for the day-of-month field, the meaning is: "the nearest business
day to the 15th of the month."

So, if the 15th is a Saturday, the trigger fires on Friday the 14th. If
the 15th is a Sunday, the trigger fires on Monday the 16th. If the 15th
is a Tuesday, then it fires on Tuesday the 15th. However if you specify
@verb{|1W|} as the value for day-of-month, and the 1st is a Saturday,
the trigger fires on Monday the 3rd, as it does not 'jump' over the
boundary of a month's days.

The @verb{|W|} character can be specified only when the day-of-month is
a single day, not a range or list of days.

The @verb{|W|} character can also be combined with @verb{|L|}, i.e.
@verb{|LW|} to mean "the last business day of the month."

@item Hash (@verb{|#|})

@verb{|#|} is allowed for the day-of-week field, and must be followed by
a number between one and five. It allows you to specify constructs such
as "the second Friday" of a given month.

@end table

Predefined cron expressions:

@multitable @columnfractions .1 .75 .15
@headitem Entry @tab Description @tab Equivalent to
@item @verb{|@annually|} @tab
    Run once a year at midnight in the morning of January 1 @tab
    @verb{|0 0 0 1 1 * *|}
@item @verb{|@yearly|} @tab
    Run once a year at midnight in the morning of January 1 @tab
    @verb{|0 0 0 1 1 * *|}
@item @verb{|@monthly|} @tab
    Run once a month at midnight in the morning of the first of the month @tab
    @verb{|0 0 0 1 * * *|}
@item @verb{|@weekly|} @tab
    Run once a week at midnight in the morning of Sunday @tab
    @verb{|0 0 0 * * 0 *|}
@item @verb{|@daily|} @tab
    Run once a day at midnight @tab
    @verb{|0 0 0 * * * *|}
@item @verb{|@hourly|} @tab
    Run once an hour at the beginning of the hour @tab
    @verb{|0 0 * * * * *|}
@end multitable

@itemize
@item
If only six fields are present, a @verb{|0|} second field is prepended,
that is, @verb{|* * * * * 2013|} internally become
@verb{|0 * * * * * 2013|}.
@item
If only five fields are present, a @verb{|0|} second field is prepended
and a wildcard year field is appended, that is, @verb{|* * * * Mon|}
internally become @verb{|0 * * * * Mon *|}.
@item
Domain for day-of-week field is [0-7] instead of [0-6], 7 being Sunday
(like 0). This to comply with @url{https://linux.die.net/man/5/crontab}.
@end itemize

@item nice
Optional. Use that @ref{Niceness, niceness} during the call (255 is used
otherwise).

@item xx
Optional. Either @verb{|rx|} or @verb{|tx|}. Tells only to either to
receive or to transmit data during that call.

@item addr
Optional. Call only that address, instead of trying all from
@ref{CfgAddrs, @emph{addrs}} configuration option. It can be either key
from @emph{addrs} dictionary, or an ordinary @option{addr:port}.

@item rxrate/txrate
Optional. Override @ref{CfgXxRate, @emph{rxrate/txrate}} configuration
option when calling.

@item onlinedeadline
Optional. Override @ref{CfgOnlineDeadline, @emph{onlinedeadline}}
configuration option when calling.

@item maxonlinetime
Optional. Override @ref{CfgMaxOnlineTime, @emph{maxonlinetime}}
configuration option when calling.

@end table
