@node EBlob
@unnumbered EBlob format

Eblob is an encrypted blob (binary large object, in the terms of
databases), holding any kind of symmetrically encrypted data with the
passphrase used to derive the key. It is used to secure configuration
files, holding valuable private keys, allowing them to be transferred
safely everywhere.

In fact it uses two factors for securing the data:

@itemize
@item @strong{salt}, that is kept inside @file{eblob}, something @emph{you have}
@item @strong{passphrase}, that is kept inside the head, something @emph{you know}
@end itemize

Whole security depends on the passphrase itself. Pay attention that this
is @strong{not} the password. Password is a short string of high entropy
(highly random) characters, but passphrase is (very) long string of
low-entropy characters. Low-entropy text is much more easier to
remember, and its length provides pretty enough entropy as a result.

Password strengthening function is applied to that passphrase to
mitigate brute-force and dictionary attacks on it. Here,
@url{https://crypto.stanford.edu/balloon/, Balloon} memory-hard password
hashing function is used, together with BLAKE2b-256 hash. It has proven
memory-hardness properties, very easy to implement, resistant to cache
attacks and seems more secure than Argon2
(@url{https://password-hashing.net/, Password Hashing Competition}
winner).

Eblob is an @url{https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4506, XDR}-encoded structure:

@verbatim
+-------+------------------+------+
| MAGIC | S | T | P | SALT | BLOB |
+-------+------------------+------+
@end verbatim

@multitable @columnfractions 0.2 0.3 0.5
@headitem @tab XDR type @tab Value
@item Magic number @tab
    8-byte, fixed length opaque data @tab
    @verb{|N N C P B 0x00 0x00 0x03|}
@item S, T, P @tab
    unsigned integer @tab
    Space cost, time cost and parallel jobs number
@item Salt @tab
    32 bytes, fixed length opaque data @tab
    Randomly generated salt
@item Blob @tab
    variable length opaque data @tab
    Authenticated and Encrypted data itself
@end multitable

@enumerate
@item generate the main key using @code{balloon(BLAKE2b-256, S, T, P,
salt, password)}
@item initialize @url{https://blake2.net/, BLAKE2Xb} XOF with generated
main key and 32-byte output length
@item feed @verb{|N N C P B 0x00 0x00 0x03|} magic number to XOF
@item read 32-bytes of blob AEAD encryption key
@item encrypt and authenticate blob using
    @url{https://cr.yp.to/chacha.html, ChaCha20}-@url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poly1305, Poly1305}.
    Blob is splitted on 128 KiB blocks. Each block is encrypted with
    increasing nonce counter. Eblob packet itself, with empty blob
    field, is fed as an additional authenticated data
@end enumerate
