\input texinfo
@documentencoding UTF-8
@settitle NNCP

@copying
This manual is for NNCP (Node to Node copy) --  collection of utilities
simplifying secure store-and-forward files and mail exchanging.

Copyright @copyright{} 2016-2019 @email{stargrave@@stargrave.org, Sergey Matveev}

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "Copying conditions".
@end quotation
@end copying

@node Top
@top

@verbatiminclude pedro.txt

@include about.texi

@center Interested? @ref{Tarballs, @strong{Download it}}!

@menu
* Comparison::
* Use cases::
* Workflow::
* News::
* Информация на русском: Русский.
* Installation::
* Configuration::
* Call configuration: Call.
* Integration::
* Commands::
* Niceness::
* Chunked files: Chunked.
* Bundles::
* Spool directory: Spool.
* Log format: Log.
* Packet format: Packet.
* Sync protocol: Sync.
* EBlob format: EBlob.
* Thanks::
* Contacts and feedback: Contacts.
* Copying conditions: Copying.
@end menu

@include comparison.texi
@include usecases.texi
@include workflow.texi
@include news.texi
@include russian.texi
@include install.texi
@include cfg.texi
@include call.texi
@include integration.texi
@include cmds.texi
@include niceness.texi
@include chunked.texi
@include bundles.texi
@include spool.texi
@include log.texi
@include pkt.texi
@include sp.texi
@include eblob.texi
@include thanks.texi
@include contacts.texi

@node Copying
@unnumbered Copying conditions

@insertcopying
@verbatiminclude fdl.txt

@bye
