@node Commands
@cindex commands
@unnumbered Commands

Nearly all commands have the following common options:

@table @option
@vindex NNCPCFG
@item -cfg
    Path to configuration file. May be overridden by @env{$NNCPCFG}
    environment variable. If file file is an encrypted @ref{EBlob,
    eblob}, then ask for passphrase to decrypt it first.
@item -debug
    Print debug messages. Normally this option should not be used.
@item -minsize
    @anchor{OptMinSize}
    Minimal required resulting packet size, in KiBs. For example if you
    send 2 KiB file and set @option{-minsize 4}, then resulting packet
    will be 4 KiB (containing file itself and some junk).
@item -nice
    Set desired outgoing packet @ref{Niceness, niceness level}.
@item -replynice
    Set desired reply packet @ref{Niceness, niceness level}. Only freq
    and exec packets look at that niceness level.
@item -via
    Override @ref{CfgVia, via} configuration option for destination node.
    Specified nodes must be separated with comma: @verb{|NODE1,NODE2|}.
    With @verb{|-via -|} you can disable relaying at all.
@vindex NNCPSPOOL
@item -spool
    Override path to spool directory. May be specified by
    @env{$NNCPSPOOL} environment variable.
@vindex NNCPLOG
@item -log
    Override path to logfile. May be specified by @env{$NNCPLOG}
    environment variable.
@item -quiet
    Print only errors, omit simple informational messages. In any case
    those messages are logged, so you can reread them using
    @command{@ref{nncp-log}} command.
@item -progress, -noprogress
    Either force progress showing, or disable it.
@item -version
    Print version information.
@item -warranty
    Print warranty information (no warranty).
@end table

@vindex TMPDIR
All commands respect @env{$TMPDIR} environment variable.

@vindex NNCPNOSYNC
If you set @env{$NNCPNOSYNC=1}, then all @code{fsync} operations will be
skipped. That is dangerous option, but if there there are abilities to
rollback possibly corrupted state to some stable snapshot, then disabled
@code{fsync} can give considerable increase in performance.

@menu
Configuration file commands

* nncp-cfgnew::
* nncp-cfgmin::
* nncp-cfgenc::
* nncp-cfgdir::

Packets creation commands

* nncp-file::
* nncp-exec::
* nncp-freq::
* nncp-trns::
* nncp-ack::

Packets sharing commands

* nncp-xfer::
* nncp-bundle::

Checking and tossing commands

* nncp-toss::
* nncp-check::
* nncp-reass::

Online synchronization protocol commands

* nncp-daemon::
* nncp-call::
* nncp-caller::
* nncp-cronexpr::

Maintenance, monitoring and debugging commands:

* nncp-stat::
* nncp-log::
* nncp-rm::
* nncp-pkt::
* nncp-hash::
@end menu

@include cmd/nncp-cfgnew.texi
@include cmd/nncp-cfgmin.texi
@include cmd/nncp-cfgenc.texi
@include cmd/nncp-cfgdir.texi
@include cmd/nncp-file.texi
@include cmd/nncp-exec.texi
@include cmd/nncp-freq.texi
@include cmd/nncp-trns.texi
@include cmd/nncp-ack.texi
@include cmd/nncp-xfer.texi
@include cmd/nncp-bundle.texi
@include cmd/nncp-toss.texi
@include cmd/nncp-check.texi
@include cmd/nncp-reass.texi
@include cmd/nncp-daemon.texi
@include cmd/nncp-call.texi
@include cmd/nncp-caller.texi
@include cmd/nncp-cronexpr.texi
@include cmd/nncp-stat.texi
@include cmd/nncp-log.texi
@include cmd/nncp-rm.texi
@include cmd/nncp-pkt.texi
@include cmd/nncp-hash.texi
