@node nncp-rm
@pindex nncp-rm
@section nncp-rm

@example
$ nncp-rm [options] [-older X] -tmp
$ nncp-rm [options] -lock
$ nncp-rm [options] [-older X] @{-all|-node NODE@} -part
$ nncp-rm [options] [-older X] @{-all|-node NODE@} -seen
$ nncp-rm [options] [-older X] @{-all|-node NODE@} -nock
$ nncp-rm [options] [-older X] @{-all|-node NODE@} -area
$ nncp-rm [options] [-older X] @{-all|-node NODE@} @{-rx|-tx@} [-hdr]
$ nncp-rm [options] [-older X] @{-all|-node NODE@} -pkt <<EOF
PKT1
PKT2
NODEx/PKT3
@dots{}
EOF
@end example

This command is aimed to delete various files from your spool directory.
@option{-older} option may limit the subset of files to be deleted for
most commands.

@itemize

@item If @option{-tmp} option is specified, then it will delete
temporary files in @file{spool/tmp} directory. Files may stay in it when
commands like @command{@ref{nncp-file}} fail for some reason.

@item If @option{-lock} option is specified, then all @file{.lock} files
will be deleted in your spool directory.

@item If @option{-pkt} option is specified, then only the specified list
of packets (Base32 names) will be deleted. It is read from @code{stdin}.
This could be useful when you see some packet failing to be processed.
Packet identifiers may have "directories" prepended, that are ignored.

@item @option{-rx} and @option{-tx} options will delete packets in
corresponding queue directories. Corresponding @file{hdr/} files are
also automatically deleted.

@item @option{-part} option limits that to @file{.part}ly downloaded packets.

@item @option{-nock} option limits that to non-checksummed
(non-verified) @file{.nock} files.

@item @option{-seen} option deletes @file{seen/} files.

@item @option{-hdr} option deletes cached @file{hdr/} files.

@item @option{-area} option deletes seen files in @file{area/} subdirectories.

@end itemize

@option{-dryrun} option just prints what will be deleted.

@option{-older} accepts an integer with appended time unit:

@itemize
@item @code{10s} -- 10 seconds
@item @code{5m} -- 5 minutes
@item @code{12h} -- 12 hours
@item @code{2d} -- 2 days
@end itemize
